As you were aware, for your contemporary
students, what were the sinful activities? They
drank a little. Did they smoke? And if so, what did
they smoke? Well, they drank a little. Hard liquor
and mainly beer. A lot of beer busts. You know, I
said earlier we didn't drink very much, but we did.
We could get keg beer and beer and take it out and
have our barbecues and that kind of thing. And a
number of kids smoked. I didn't. But a number of
them did, and they smoked cigarettes, tobacco.
Very few pipes. Some, you never know, they were
cigar. But we didn't know, I didn't know anything
about dope or drugs. Did you even know the
vocabulary? Didn't know anything about that
until many years later. What about chewing
tobacco? There were a few that chewed tobacco, but
they weren't very clever. Let's see. Core trip?
Describe a core trip. Well, a core trip was twice a
year. The entire core would go off to a football
game. It was to, back in those days, to Austin,
Houston, Dallas, Fort Worth. So it would be
like... in Fort Worth and Houston one year, and
Dallas and Austin the other year. They have those
reversed, but anyway. And the whole core was,
well, of course, we had Saturday classes, so it was
a little bit difficult to get to a football game in
Dallas for 2 o'clock kickoff on Saturday at noon
with Saturday morning classes. So most of that
time, the classes on Saturday morning were either
scratched or canceled or whatever. And I remember
one of the petroleum professors saying, it
doesn't matter what you do because of a poor trip.
Somebody would leave early if you had a poor trip to
have. So kids would leave. They'd leave early and
get to wherever they wanted. As we mentioned
earlier, a lot of them have to travel by
hitchhiking. So we were trying to get to Dallas for
a Saturday afternoon game and a parade Saturday
morning before that. You really need to get up
there the night before. Do you remember the Corps
trip your senior year when you were Corps
Commander? I remember very well. Where? In Dallas
and in Austin. And where in Dallas did y'all march?
We marched, I remember the streets in Dallas.
Elmer, Maine. Well, we marched up Maine. We
marched, we formed on the west end down there
somewhere, marched east, uphill, going uphill.
Okay, okay. And I remember getting kidded very
much about it because it was cold, sort of a wet-ish
day, and we wore white gloves and carried sabers.
And when I came up for eyes right with my saber, came
up with my hand, and the saber kept going. But I
caught it on the way down. And, of course, my whole
staff, my staff kidded me about that for a long
time. Anyway, that was Dallas. And then I remember
also in Austin, we marched from south to north on
Congress Avenue. And as Corps Commander, I had
several of us went up, the Commandant and my
operations officer, and it seemed like another
cadet and another officer, went up ahead of time to
Dallas and to Austin, talked with the university
officials and mainly the police department for
the parade to make sure that everything was and
where the march would be, where we would perform,
and where we would call out, and so on. And that's
quite pulling to march up Main Street in Dallas
with the police escort ahead of you, pull behind
you, and band up behind you. Were there any
incidents of either one? Well, I'm sure there were
some, but we had nothing like what you hear about.
And
nobody threw anything? No, I'm sure there was
some, but I don't remember any particular
problem. Describe a typical, your senior year, a
typical football weekend. It began when and
extended how long? Well, I guess this would be
typical, semi-typical anyway, at least toward
the end. in my senior year,
football games were normally, some of them were at
night, early in the season, but most of them would
be in the afternoon. So the date would come down
either the night before, in my particular case,
from the palace area, and by train. So I'd be there
on the train and get her settled in to wherever she
was. and then there'd be various activities on
Saturday morning. What about Friday night?
Usually they'd come in pretty late. Was there a
Yale practice? Oh yeah, there would be a midnight
Yale practice. Where was it held? We had midnight
Yale practices in the Grove.
I think that's right. I remember some Yale
practices over on the steps of the OIMC.
Now, did your being at Aggie have anything to do
with your meeting this young lady? Well, it did. I
met her in the spring of my junior year when
one particular friend from McKinney and a couple
of others of us were walking on a Sunday afternoon
over to the MSC and we were over near the main desk
now, where it was sort of a living room area. And
this boy from McKinney said, say, there's a girl
from my hometown. Come on over and have an
interview with her. Turned out it's my now wife, 40
years. And she had been invited down. She was still
in high school. She had been invited down by a
freshman from McKinney. for the freshman ball and
she had been selected sweetheart of the freshman
ball. So I was impressed and then the next fall we
ended up having our first date at the Oklahoma
State game up in Douglas. One thing led to another.
Many years later we got married. My wife and I have
been married 40 years. We married June 15, 57. Same
date as my wife. You're kidding. Really? Yeah,
June 15th. Ours was in central North Carolina.
Back to the typical, so when did the day, the
football day begin for a Corps commander?
Midnight Yelp practice or night before? Midnight
Yelp practice, and so we would, you know, We'll
pick up our dates at mid-morning or something like
that and take them for a bite to eat, depending on
where they were staying and who they were staying
with. We'll have a noon meal, and then Liz and Bill
will talk about how this timing would work. But the
Corps would march in ahead of the football game, so
we would have to be in uniform, dressing uniform,
and fall out in formation probably around 1 if the
game was going to be at 2 o'clock. and we'd fall out
over to the new area and march down Joe Ratt
Boulevard to Columbia. Now did you, was it your
task to get her placed in the stadium or did she get
there on her own? I ask that question in ignorance
because I don't know. Well, I'm in ignorance
myself right now. I don't remember how we worked
that. But she would be with you at the game? She
would be sitting with me at the game, yes. Or
standing with you? Standing, yeah. Now where did
the Corps commander... Where was the corps
commander's place in the stadium? Well, once we
passed into view in the stadium and broke
formation and went up in the stands, it was every
man and his lady for themselves, although there
was a certain seating arrangement by class. The
seniors got the lower seats, the better seats, and
ranked sort of behind them, if I remember right,
freshman and senior higher. And then if there was a
victory, what happened after a victory? Well,
with the victory, it marched over behind the band
to Fish Pond and had a little yell practice. And the
yell leaders were... The yell leaders were dunked
into Fish Pond no matter what the weather, cold or
hot or whatever. And then Saturday night was
normally... Saturday night there was normally
some entertainment around the campus, some kind
of dance or something like that. And then on Sunday
morning, we'd normally go to church. And
depending on when the date, had to either get on a
train or a car or a bus or something and get back to
where she came from. Did you and your friends
attend worship services here in the campus area?
Yes. Where did you go? I was a Lutheran by
background, and grew up in a Lutheran church, but
it seemed like I went to Anaheim Methodist Church
in Northgate more than any other place here. Did
you feel that denominations meant, were terribly
important, or was it to go to church for you and your
friends? To go to church. I still feel that way. I'm
a Presbyterian now. Let's see. Final Review.
Describe Final Review in a few days. Well, you
know, final review is an emotional time, and still
is, I think, observing the cadets. But it's sort of
the culmination of four years of being in the Corps
together. And in those four years, you've gotten
to be very, very close to a number of people, a
number of friends. And it's also, at that point,
see the end of the line for being in the Corps,
turning over your positions to the for the next
class, and so it was pretty emotional. It was in my
time. I remember very well the time to turn over to
the next Corps commander. That was held on what's
now called Simpson Drill Field. Was there any
particular guest reviewing officer? There no
doubt was a reviewing officer. I don't recall now.
I've got pictures at home. Reach back and describe
Bonfire when you were an undergraduate.
How big, where? Bonfire was held on at that time. I
remember working on it pretty hard. I don't really
remember my freshman year, but I'm sure we did. I'm
sure we turned out to be okay. I remember working on
it with some friends in sophomore year, going out
to the cut area and that kind of thing. My senior
year as Corps Commander, I remember not doing much
with the physical work, but mainly going around
visiting and making sure things were And it
was made of timber. It wasn't trash, it was timber.
It was timber. It wasn't anything near what it is
today. It wasn't this uniform deal that they tied
all this up. I don't really know why they do it that
way now because it tends to policy. They just
stacked it up there and leaned it against each
other. I'm sure there was some time to keep it up
there. It didn't look like it does today. Silver
Taps. Silver Taps. Very impressive ceremony. I
remember I don't remember now particular names
when we went And we were a smaller student body at
that time, so it didn't occur that it was off and
over. Now they've got
it, I guess, just once a month, no matter how many
people you kill. A very impressive ceremony. I
can't help but be impressed by it, being out there
in front of the academic building and all the
lights out. Describe what happened, what it was.
Well, I believe it's 10 o'clock in the evening at
Silver Taps. Before that, people start moving
toward the open area on the west side of the
academic building. And at the appointed hour, the
lights across the campus go out. And you have the
Ross Volunteers fire whatever their salute is,
how many ever guns they fire. And then there's
silver taps played from the top of the academic
building. I believe there were five jigglers in
the army, laying the taps, it seemed like, about
three different times. They were very
impressive, certainly. And then everybody,
there was no one talking when we were over there, no
one talking during the ceremony, and no one
talking all the way back until dawn. Other
campuses don't understand that, they don't know.
Aggie Muster, do you remember Muster in your days?
Well, I remember Muster, particularly my senior
year, The campus must have had a part in the
program. And a friend of mine, my deputy corps
commander, was a senior class president, so we
both spoke frequently. The main speaker was a
governor from Colorado. His name was Thornburg.
He was held on the north side of the MSC. Where that
overhang is, the MSC has been changed since that
time. There were steps there, and it didn't have
that dry window that we had there now. So that had
the speakers standing up on top of those steps, and
people singing back and forth. But the main crowd
was just on the ground up front. It wasn't
that large a crowd, I guess, at the time. What are
the factors that build Aggie spirit?
What creates Aggie spirit? Well, that's a hard
thing to describe. I guess no one really
completely understands the tradition. Kids now,
when they come, they've got these traditions. And
whether they realize it or not, these traditions
were all, essentially all, the main ones, founded
in the military days of this college and founded by
the Corps. and have sort of a military background
to them in a lot of ways silver caps we were just
talking about obviously
all those things uh form part of what's called the
vegas spirit the
i can understand it back in the days you know when my
time when Most of the people, most of the students
on the campus were in the Corps because we lived so
closely together. We knew each other. We really
formed a tremendous bond. Thank goodness a lot of
that's still carrying on by every looks. I guess
that's the basis of the spirit. As you were
preparing to leave the campus with your master's
degree, what sort of world did you think you were
entering? What did you think it was going to be
like?
Well, I didn't really know. I had worked, I was
going to go into the oil business, and I had worked
during the summers for different oil companies,
but that was mainly sort of physical work. I wasn't
too sure what I was going to get into in business.
But, of course, I also was going to, I didn't go into
the military service for a couple of years because
I had taken my advance contract. I was in the Air
Force. At that time they were looking for people to
go to flight school. Today it's very hard to get
into flight school, but at that time I could have
gone and chose not to be a pilot because it would
have meant a four-year commitment rather than two
years that I've been in the service. had made up my
mind by that time that I wanted to pursue the
civilian route in the military, although I liked
the military very much. And when I did serve my two
years, I learned a tremendous
lot. Do you want me to carry on? Yes, please do. I had
had some friends in the Corps a couple years ahead
of me that had gone into flight school and that kind
of thing. It just seemed like a long time, too. take
four years if you wanted to pursue a business
career or an engineering career. So I chose to go on
the two-year route. But as I said, for two years I
was in the Air Force, so it convinced me that I'd
gone the right way. But even so, I really learned a
lot dealing with people and so on when I was in the
Air Force. The clothing department works very
closely with the clothing industry, so they've
given us a pretty good feel for what it was going to
be like. And I guess I didn't have any real
surprises when I went to work. I worked for Shell
one summer, but when I finished with my master's
degree, I decided to go work for what has been
called Umbiloy Repair Company. It's now called
Exxon. And it's strange how you make decisions at
that period of your life. I'm not really sure how I
made that decision, except I had worked for Shell
that one summer, and I didn't particularly like
what I had done. And I really thought that Shell was
too much of an international company. I wanted to
go to work for Humboldt Oil and Refining Company,
which was, I thought, a domestic operation. It was
after I went to work for them that I realized that
they were owned about 60% or 70% by Standard Oil in
New Jersey. changing into Exxon. And it was much
later that I learned that Shell, oil company U.S.,
is a domestic operation, even though it's owned by
Royal Dutch Shell out of Holloman, England, which
is the international operation. But they let
Shell Petroleum run its own business, and it is
strictly, pretty well, a domestic company. But I
never had any regrets about the company I chose.
It's a fine company right there. All right, as you
recollect, how well did A&M prepare you for the
real world? I thought they prepared me very, very
well. You know, in my profession, patrolling,
engineering, as I mentioned, they went very
closely with industry. So I thought, you know,
when I went in, no problem. I never had any problems
with my engineering background or that kind of
thing. although they forced me to go to some
training schools for the first year or so after I
got out of the Air
Force. I felt like I already had most of that. So I
got two ways, I guess. But beyond that, in the
military and dealing with people and that kind of
thing, I felt like we were very, very well
prepared. Last two questions are almost the same
question phrased differently. In conclusion,
what did it mean, as you look back on it, what did it
mean to you, what has it meant to you in your life
that you went to Texas A&M? Well, in the first
place, it changed my life dramatically. It's hard
to say, well, A&M versus had I gone to TU, or Baylor,
or Rice, or whatever. I can't do both. But first of
all, it's just the fact that I got a college
education changed my life from what it would have
been otherwise. And thank God for people like
Tyler Lee Wynn and so on that were given
scholarships at that time. Although I learned
later that you could work your way through too, but
I didn't know that at the time. I met my wife here at
A&M, just all kinds of things. And a number of my
lifelong friends I made here at the school. And I
guess beyond all that, just the good training, the
good experience, the spirit we were just talking
about was also sort of a can-do spirit that's built
into you here for whatever reason, however you do
it. I think all that was a tremendous benefit to me.
So, what feelings do you have in your heart for A&M?
Well, I love A&M. When I retired, I came back here
and I was looking for work to do and I was offered a
teaching position over in the business school,
which I did teach for one semester and realized
that I didn't like teaching all
that much. I've since gone
for the university to, in some small way, try to pay
them back for what they did for my life.